The Joe Rogan experience.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> um,
beyond anti speech or want to limit speech or whatever. I mean, that's.
That's a pretty big.
Issue though. Well,
I don't actually agree that it exists on a significant portion of the left.
Like I think a bigger issue, for example, like if you said,
what is like a serious issue that the left needs to contend with right now?
Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
I would say a more serious issue is if you look at the progressive
accomplishments of the early 20th century, for example,
like 1905 to 1925,
and the new deal accomplishments that the left had in the time of FDR,
what was different,
I think then than the left now is that you didn't have to be
completely in line with a specific set of policies or ideas mm-hmm
<affirmative>. And I worry that now there's a little bit, um,
of the left,
maybe having this idea that if you're not in line on all of these issues,
whatever the checklist is, so to speak,
you're not really worthy of being a participant in what is clearly a
leftward move in, in sort of the average Americans political orientation.
I don't wanna see that prevent progress, right?
Yeah. That's the, that's the hard tribalism, right? That's that's where the,
the line gets drawn you're with us or against us.
And the there's one way to think there.
Is there a lot of that, I mean, I saw it with healthcare recently.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> with healthcare.
I don't think that you can make any serious case from the left.
That healthcare is fine. And the,
for profit employer connected system that we have is working. Like, I,
I don't think there's any progressive case to be made for that where people will
differ is what about Medicare for versus some
other system system that looks more like Canada's or the UK or Germany or
whatever. And I've already started to see, like, when I say on my show,
I'm kind of agnostic on this. Like the system we have is a disaster.
We need a system that will get coverage to everybody. The,
the numbers can be made to work any number of different ways.
We've looked at it, but 80% of people on Medicare,
I believe it is have some additional coverage.
They either are still working part-time or full-time and get coverage that way.
Or they're poor enough to be on Medicaid.
The point is Medicare for all doesn't solve every issue, right?
It's way better than what we have,
but here's like a dozen other possibilities looking at other countries,
there is a portion of the left that doesn't like that I'm saying I'm against
Medicare for all. I'm not saying that.
What I'm saying is there are a number of different ways to improve upon the
system.
We have all of which sever this relationship between usually
your employer and these for-profit insurance companies. Yeah.
Why can't we be open to.
That? I really don't understand private citizens that don't want easy
access to quality healthcare for everybody that confuses the outta me.
Like have you ever been hurt? Have you ever been sick? Yeah. Do you,
have you ever been broke, right?
Do you want to be broke and have no access to healthcare? No one does.
No one wants anybody they care about to not have access to healthcare of all the
things that we concentrate on this country. There's two things that,
that drive me crazy, that people just dismiss education and healthcare.
The idea that you have to like my buddy, Greg, Greg fit Simmons,
he sending his kid off to school.
How much did he say that it was 60, 65,
60 $5,000 a year for both of his kids, for each of his kid. So, you know,
he is got two kids that that's,
that hurts my head to even think about spending
$130,000 a year.
Just on if you you're a regular person with a regular job,
how the do you do that? Impossible. It's impossible. It's so much money.
And then that's not even paying for housing and food and transportation
and books and everything else that you're gonna need too.
And to make it more difficult for young people to succeed is one of
the worst ways to make a stronger country. If you want a, a strong country,
you want educated people that can it to pursue their dreams.
And the idea that we are so willing to spend so much money on these costly
regime,
change wars and flying troops overseas to these places that
they don't want to go. No one, no one wants it to happen.
And it's trillions of dollars and people are fine with that.
But you talk to them about 'em sort of socialized education system and people
freak out and think you wanna turn us into communists. Well.
I think what is really important to understand is that the facts you just laid
out don't matter to people, right?
You see this as an issue of what do people deserve, what do they deserve?
So if you say to a fiscal conservative, you know,
if you consider the amount that employee pays for premiums,
plus the employer, plus your co-pays plus co-insurance, you,
you mm-hmm, <affirmative> put it all together into some amount.
And you explain to them, there's lots of great analyses that have been done,
which tell us that with roughly the same amount of money,
maybe small payroll tax. In addition with roughly that same amount,
it all could be done with a single payer system that covers everybody.
It's the same. You're taking all of these individual risk pools,
where you have different for-profit insurers.
And then you have systems for people that don't have enough money. Medicaid,
you have systems for people that are over 65, Medicare, you put it all together,
you spread the risk far wider.
The employer no longer has to pay their part of the premium employee,
no longer pays part of their premium to the for-profit insurance company.
The numbers work. They're still not going to say, you know what? That,
that sounds great. It's actually pretty fiscally conservative. Let's do it.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> because at some point there is a,
a portion of the right that just doesn't think people have earned healthcare.
They just haven't earned it. They have, or education or education. Yeah,
that's right. And it's very hard to, uh,
change people's minds when that's their view. Uh,
I think it's might be George layoff,
who I believe calls it strict father morality, which is like,
how would a really strict father treat a child who comes to them and says,
Hey, you know what? Uh, I figured out a way that we can all have healthcare,
the strict father, even if the numbers make sense, would say, I'm,
I'm gonna teach you a lesson.
You haven't earned that healthcare either because you don't work or you don't
make enough money or you're on disability, whatever the case may be.
How do you convince someone to change their mind when that's their worldview?
Yeah.
How do you,
when it's an ideologically based decision and you're on team R
or team L you know what, which, uh,
which group of ideas do you adopt? Right? Uh,
the, the UK system sucks. You talk to people that get healthcare over in the UK.
It sucks,
but at least they have a system it's just not the same quality healthcare that
you get in America. Same with my friends in Canada.
I have friends in Canada that have come down here to get surgery.
Cuz they find better doctors over here because Brent.
Paul was going to Canada to get his, um, uh, operation. Yeah.
That was why was that? Why did he do.
That? The best places in Canada,
the best place for hernias for that type of hernia? I believe. Yeah. Hmm.
I mean, here's the thing, even in saying the UK system and the Canadian system,
neither one is that good? Right? The, those two systems are totally different.
Right? So it, I feel like, but they're both socialized medicine. They are both.
Uh, well, yes, in some sense,
I mean the Canadian system is administered at the province level.
So the province is sort of like the market instead of having all these submarket
attached to individual for-profit sures at the provincial level, uh,
that's how it's organized. The UK has, uh,
the national health service where they're actually,
they don't actually run the healthcare facilities,
but they're the ones who are contracting them. So it's sort of like the,
the healthcare facility still, uh, isn't own entity.
It's not that you're going. And the government,
it is the employer of the doctor,
so to speak mm-hmm <affirmative> but they're contracting with the healthcare
facilities.
But the point I wanna make is that there are criticisms of all of these systems,
but they're different ones. Mm-hmm <affirmative>. So when we say, eh,
the British and Canadian systems, aren't that good, right.
Let's figure out in what ways each is not that good because they're different
ways, whether you're talking about health outcomes, early detection,
cost per treatment,
whatever mm-hmm <affirmative> you really have to drill down and figure out in
what way are we saying it's not as good.
Yeah. What I'm saying is that there's no perfect system. There's no perfect.
System systems are. Right.
But I believe that most of the best doctors terms of
like north America, at least, or in the United States,
I'm sure there's probably some very good doctors in Canada that do specialize
medicine. But I think really good doctors are incentivized by profit.
I really do.
I think there is some motivation for if you spend so much money for medical
school and you, you bust your, you wanna make a lot of money.
And some of the best doctor earn a really good living. I think,
I think limiting their, uh, their ability to earn that money.
Won't incentivize people to be excellent.
So couple different things. I mean, number one, to be clear,
we're now starting to get into a little bit of broader economic philosophy.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> like I'm a capitalist I'm I'm for social democracy,
which is a mixed system.
That's a capitalist system that says we're going to invest, uh,
tax revenue in a particular way to make sure that no one falls below a certain
level. So I, my, my,
just to con contextualize that my point of view is not from one of becoming a
social this country. And I think we share those views. I think so. Um,
a lot of doctors will say that even though on sort of on
paper, in a socialized medicine system,
they might make less for a particular procedure, for example,
or something like that.
A lot of them are still in favor of those systems because it would drastically
reduce their overhead.
So there's all of this apparatus that includes medical billing and coding both
on the insurer end and at the healthcare provider end the hospital and the
insurance company both are battling over what is it that was done, right?
What are the codes that, that apply here and how, what are,
are reimbursed rates? Mm-hmm, <affirmative> there's fraud when it comes to that.
Um,
and that requires an apparatus for investigating and adjudicating that that adds
more and more cost. So I don't think it's as easy.
I don't think it's as obvious that under those systems at the end of the day,
a doctor that owns, uh, PCP, uh, group, for example,
or an orthopedic clinic or whatever the case may be.
I don't know that it's that clear that they end up taking home less money.
Hmm. Uh, that's interesting.
I'd wonder if in practice that would play out that way maybe,
and maybe I'm talking about just like high end orthopedic surgeons that do knee
surgeries for athletes and things along those.
Lines,
they often would be outside of whatever insurance apparatus we're talking about.
Anyway,
of course a lot of those folks are often being paid out of pocket anyway. Yes.
So it's less at least some, at least some. Yeah.
So for the average person's experience, I think it's less relevant. Yeah. Um.
Then there's also liability insurance, which is extremely expensive.
That's a giant issue with, with doctors. It's a huge, huge expense.
It is. Yeah. I mean, I think it is necessary. Mm-hmm, <affirmative>, uh,
there's a question as to whether it's organized in the best way.
I know less about that component than some of the other ones.